Manuals+— User Manuals Simplified.
 CREALITY Ender-3 V3 SE 3D Printer User Manual
 Home
 Contents
 » Creality
 1 CREALITY Ender-3 V3 SE 3D
 Printer
 2 PRODUCT INFORMATION
 3 Assembly Procedure
 4 Operation and Use
 5 Equipment Maintenance
 6 Troubleshooting
 7 Circuit Wiring
 8 Documents / Resources
 » CREALITY Ender-3 V3 SE 3D Printer User Manual 
CREALITY Ender-3 V3 SE 3D Printer
PRODUCT INFORMATION
 To Our Dear Users
 Thank you for choosing Creality. For your convenience, please read through this User Manual before you start and
 follow the instructions provided carefully. Creality is always ready to provide you with high-quality services. If you
 encounter any issues or have any questions when using our products, please use the contact information at the
 end of this manual to contact us. To further improve your user experience, you can find more about our devices
 via the following methods:
 User manual: You can find instructions and videos in the memory card provided with the printer.
 You can also visit our official website (https://www.creality.com
 ) to find information regarding software,
 hardware, contact information, device instructions, device warranty information, and more.
 Firmware Upgrade
 Please visit the official website https://www.creality.com, 
click on Service Center → Firmware/Software
 Download → Download the required firmware, install and use it.
 Note: The manual interface is for reference only. As the functions are constantly upgraded, please refer to the
 latest firmware/software UI on the official website.
Videos showing the operation of the products and after-sales service
 Videos showing the operation of the products and after-sales service For the product operation and after-sales
 service videos, you can visit https://www.crealitycloud.com/product, 
click on “Products” and select the right
 model, and then click on “Related” to view the tutorials on after-sales service
 Instructions for Use
 1. Do not use this printer by methods or operations that are not described in this manual, otherwise it may result
 in accidental injury or property
 2. Do not place this printer near flammable materials, explosive materials or high heat sources. Please place this
 printer in a ventilated, cool and low-dust environment.
 3. Do not place this printer in a vibrating or any other unstable environment, as the printing quality will be
 compromised when the printer
 4. Please use the filament recommended by the manufacturer, otherwise the nozzle may be clogged or the
 printer may be
 5. Please use the power cord provided with the printer and do not use the power cord of other The power plug
 must be plugged into a three-hole socket with a ground wire.
 6. Do not touch the nozzle or hotbed while the printer is in operation, otherwise you may get
 7. Do not wear gloves or accessories while operating the printer, otherwise the moving parts may cause
 accidental injury including cuts and
 8. After the printing process is complete, please use tools to clean up the filament on the nozzle while the nozzle
 is still hot. Do not touch the nozzle with your hands when cleaning, otherwise your hands may get
 9. Please regularly clean the printer body with a dry cloth while the power is off, and wipe off dust, sticky printing
 materials, and foreign objects on the guide
 10. Children under the age of 10 must not use this printer without adult supervision in order to avoid accidental
 11. This printer has a safety protection mechanism. Please do not manually move the nozzle or printing platform
 quickly while the printer is on, otherwise the printer will automatically power off for protection.
 12. Users should abide by the laws and regulations of the corresponding country and region where the equipment
 is located (place of use), abide by professional ethics, and pay attention to safety The use of our products or
 equipment for any illegal purpose is strictly prohibited. Our compa- ny is not responsible for the relevant legal
 responsibilitiesof any violators.
 About the Printer
1 Print platform
 5 X-axis tensioner
 9 Voltage regulation gear
 2 X-axis kit
 6 Display screen
 13
 Coupler
 10 Z-axis motor
 3 Extruder kit
 7 Rotary button
 14
 Type-C port
 11 X-axis support
 4 Material rack assembly 8 Power outlet
 15
 Storage card sl
 ot
 12 X-axis motor
 Parts List
 Accessory kit
 16
 Power switch
 Assembly Procedure
Gantry Frame
 1. Place the gantry frame in the slot of the base, tighten it first with M3*14 screws by aligning with the holes from
 the bottom, then use M3*8 screws to secure    it in place from the rear end of the gantry frame in the same
 way.
 Display Screen
 1. Put the display screen on the right side of the bottom assembly, align the screw holes and secure with M4*10
 screws, then connect the display wiring;
 TIP: The card slot on the left side of the display screen is only used for inserting a card to upgrade the screen
 f
 irmware.
 Material Rack
1. Fix the material rack assembly to the gantry frame, align the screw holes and lock it with M5*8 screws;
 Equipment Wiring
 CAUTION:
 Please ensure the correct position for the power supply switch and mains before supply connection, in order to
 avoid damage to the device.
 If the mains between 100V and 120V, please select the 115V for the power supply switch.
 If the mains between 200V and 240V, please select the 230V for the power supply switch (default is 230V).
1. First, insert the extruder cable into the extruder adapter board, then secure it with the FFC fixing clip assembly;
 2. Follow the label instructions to secure the extruder cable into the cable fixing clip before connecting the X-axis
 motor
 3. Connect the Z-axis motor
 Tips: Please ensure proper wiring according to the provided diagram and avoid overturning or folding the
 extruder cable, as it may cause printing abnormalities
 Filament Loading
 Manual loading
1. Before printing, cut the front of the filament at 45° and break it off straight;
 2. Gently press the extrusion clamp and insert the straightened filament through the hole to the bottom of the heat
 break
 How to Replace the Filament?
 Withdraw the filaments quickly and feed the new filaments after the nozzle is preheated and filaments are pushed
 a little forward.
 1. Auto feed
 2. Auto retreat
Tips: During the retraction process, there may be some extrusion of filaments, which is a normal phenomenon.
 Operation and Use
 Leveling
 Select “Leveling” with the knob and wait for the completion of the auto leveling operation;
 Value displayed in green: indicating platform is level;
 Value displayed in blue: indicating platform is relatively level;
 Value displayed in yellow: indicating platform is slightly inclined;
 Value displayed in red: indicating platform is significantly inclined.
 Tips: Please clean the printing platform before leveling to ensure that there are no foreign objects or filaments left
 on the printing platform.
Printer preheating
 Carry out PLA/TPU preheating by selecting “Prepare” with the knob;
 Official recommended print parameters for filament
 Adapted 
protective
 Filament
 cover
 CR-PLA NO
 HP-TPU NO
 CR-PET
 G
 Adapted 
dry box
 NO
 NO
 Drawbac
 k distanc
 e
 0.8mm
 Drawbac
 k speed
 Max. hot
 bed temp
 erature
 Nozzle te
 mperatur
 e
 Fan spee
 d
 40mm/s 60℃
 1.6mm
 NO
 YES
 Software Installation and Slicing
 1.2mm
 40mm/s 70℃
 40mm/s 70℃
 205℃
 205℃
 230℃
 100
 100
 50
 Install Creality Print slicing software by opening the random data on the storage card.
 Printing speed
 180-250mm/s
 50mm/s
 120mm/s
 Login to the website to download and install: https://www.crealitycloud.com/software-firmware/software?
 type=7
 1. Select “Language”  and “Server
 2. Add the printer
 3. Confirm the  nozzle diameter
 4. Import model files
5. Set filament type
 6. Adjust parameter configuration and click on “Slice”
 7. After the slicing is completed, gcode files are generated, then click “Export to Local” to save it to the storage
 card;
 Printing Files
 1. Insert the storage card into the card slot;
 2. Select “Print”;
 3. Select the file to be printed;
Note:
 1. For details on using the software, please refer to the slicing software user manual on the memory
 2. Saved files must be placed in the root directory (not a subdirectory) of the memory
 3. The file name must be Latin letters or numbers, not Chinese characters or other special symbols, and no more
 than 20
 4. Do not insert or remove the memory card during the printing
 If the first layer of printing effect is overpressure or does not stick to the platform, you need to use the knob to
 select the setting, adjust the Z axis compensation, so that the printing platform and the nozzle fit as much as
 possible, and click OK to start printing
 Printing…
Printing can be paused in the event of an unexpected situation during printing
 Click on “OK” when printing is done.
 Equipment Maintenance
 Platform plate removal and maintenance
 1. When printing is finished, wait for the platform plate to cool before removing the printing platform with the
 model attached;
 Slightly bend the platform with both hands to separate the model from the platform.”
 2. If there are residual filaments on the platform plate, scrape them off lightly with a blade and print again.
 3. If the first layer of the model is not properly glued, it is recommended to apply solid adhesive evenly on the
 surface of the platform plate before preheating for printing.
 Tips:
 1. The printing platform is not easy to bend too large in daily use, and it is impossible to prevent deformation from
 being unusable;
 2. The printing platform is a perishable part, and it is recommended to replace it regularly to ensure that the first
 layer of the model sticks properly.
 Screw and smooth shaft lubrication
 It is recommended to purchase your own lubricant and regularly lubricate and maintain the screw and smooth
 shaft.
Nozzle Replacement
 1. Remove the silicone protective cover;
 2. Remove the old nozzle;
 3. Mount a new nozzle;
 4. Mount the silicone protective cover.
 Warnings:
 1. To replace the nozzle, you need to preheat the nozzle first;
 2. Prevent scalding when replacing nozzles which are hot;
 3. Use a tool to hold the heating block in place when removing the nozzle to avoid damage to the components.
 Troubleshooting
 No. Description of the proble
 m
 Possible causes
 1) Filaments not loaded in place
 1
 No extrusion of filaments a
 s printing begins
 2) Extruder planning
 3) Filament jamming
2 Insufficient extrusion
 1) Incorrect diameter of filaments;
 2) Flow rate is too low, please readjust slicing parameters.
 3 Holes or gaps in the top
 1) Inadequate number of solid layers at the top;
 2) Too low infill density;
 3) Insufficient extrusion.
 
4
 
Wire drawing or draping
 1) Too little drawback distance;
 2) Slow drawback speed;
 3) Extruder temperature too high;
 4) Too long idle running distance.
 5 Why does warping occur?
 1) Hotbed temperature is too low;
 2) Model cooling fan disabled, cooling fan needs to be restarted;
 3) Base area of the model is too small, it is required to increase the edges 
and base.
 6 Why does the hotbed not 
heat up?
 1) Check the hotbed heating cable for broken or loose connections and re
enforce or replace with new wiring;
 2) Contact after-sales staff to resolve.
 
7
 
What can I do if there is no
 response when the
 memory
 card is inserted into the m
 achine?
 1) Corrupt print file, re-slice it;
 2) The print file is too long, it is better to keep it to 8 letters or less;
 3) If the file name is not English/numeric, insert the card into the machine a
 nd restart it;
 4) Format the storage card;
 5) TF card / mainboard card slot is damaged, contact after-sales service to 
assist in testing.
 8
 What can I do about loose 
X-axis and
 Y-axis belts?
 Tighten the X-axis and Y-axis adjustment screws with a tool and keep the b
 elt with a certain amount of spring back and then start printing again.
 9
 How to deal with abnormal
 nozzle temperatures (too l
 ow/too high)?
 1) Check nozzle NTC wire for open circuit (too low temperature) / short circ
 uit (too high temperature).
 2) Check the nozzle heating block for abnormalities.
 3) Replace the nozzle thermistor.
10
 How to deal with abnormal
 hotbed temperatures (too l
 ow/too high)?
 1) Check hotbed NTC wire for open circuit (too low temperature) / short circ
 uit (too high temperature).
 2) Check the hotbed heating system for abnormalities.
 3) Replace the hotbed thermistor.
 Equipment Parameters
 Model Ender-3 V3 SE
 Modeling Technolog FDM
 Modeling
 Dimensions 220*220*250mm
 Leveling Method Auto-leveling with CR-Touch
 Number of Nozzles 1pcs
 Extruder Diameter 0.4 mm (standard)
 Slice Thickness 0.1-0.35mm
 Precision ±0.1mm
 typical printing spee
 d 180mm/s
 Maximum printing s
 peed 250mm/s
 Acceleration 2500mm/s²
 Nozzle Temperature ≤ 260℃
 Hotbed Temperatur
 e ≤ 100℃
 Ambient Temperatur
 e 5℃~35℃
 Filaments PLA/TPU(95A)/PETG
 Rated Power 350W
 Input voltage 100-120V~, 200-240V~, 50/60Hz
 Power Loss Recove
 ry Yes
 Printing Method Storage card printing
 File Format STL/OBJ/AMF
 Slicing Software Creality print/Cura/ Repetier-Host/Simplify3D
 Operating Systems Windows/MAC/Linux
 Language / English/ Español/ Deutsche/ Français/ Pусский/ Português/ Italiano/ Türk/ 
Circuit Wiring
 Due to the differences between different machine models, the actual objects and the images can differ. Please
 refer to the actual machine. The final explanation rights shall be reserved by Shenzhen Creality 3D Technology
 Co., Ltd.
 18th Floor, JinXiuHongDu Building, Meilong Road, Xinniu Community, Minzhi Street, Longhua District, Shenzhen
 City, China.
 Official Website: www.creality.com
 Tel: +86 755-8523 4565
 E–mail: cs@creality.com
 Documents / Resources
 CREALITY Ender-3 V3 SE 3D Printer
 [pdf] User Manual
 Ender-3 V3 SE 3D Printer, Ender-3 V3 SE, 3D Printer, Printer
Manuals+
 ,
